<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>The ONE Thing</title>
    <meta content="urn:uuid:3f97e3d1-e3c0-4aed-8d88-d99b2216be28" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../utahm7ga.html">The ONE Thing
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Gary Keller

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="28-chap18.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="30-research.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="chaptitle" id="onething"><a id="page218" class="pcalibre3 calibre5 pcalibre pcalibre1 pcalibre2"></a><a id="page217" class="pcalibre3 calibre5 pcalibre pcalibre1 pcalibre2"></a>PUTTING THE ONE THING TO WORK</h1>
<div class="float">
	<p class="right1"><big class="sanspink1">“In delay there lies no plenty.”</big></p>
	<p class="right1"><i class="sansgray2">-William Shakespeare</i></p>
</div>
<p class="first">So what now?</p>
<p class="ind">You’ve read the book. You get it. You’re ready to experience extraordinary results in your life. So, what do you do? How do you tap into The ONE Thing in the most powerful way? Let’s revisit the heart of the book and look at ways you can put The ONE Thing to work right now.</p>
<p class="ind">For brevity’s sake, I’ll shorten the Focusing Question, so be sure to add “... such that by doing it everything will be easier or unnecessary?” at the end of each question!</p>
<h3 class="subhead" id="page219">YOUR PERSONAL LIFE</h3>
<p class="noind1">Let the ONE Thing bring clarity to the key areas of your life. Here’s a short sampling.</p>
<ul class="calibre12">
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do this week to discover or affirm my life’s purpose... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do in 90 days to get in the physical shape I want... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do today to strengthen my spiritual faith... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do to find time to practice the guitar 20 minutes a day... ? Knock five strokes off my golf game in 90 days... ? Learn to paint in six months... ?</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subhead">YOUR FAMILY</h3>
<p class="noind1">Use the ONE Thing with your family for fun and rewarding experiences. Here are some options.</p>
<ul class="calibre12">
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing we can do this week to improve our marriage... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing we can do every week to spend more quality family time together... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing we can do tonight to support our kid’s schoolwork... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing we can do to make our next vacation the best ever... ? Our next Christmas the best ever... ? Thanksgiving the best ever... ?</li>
</ul>
<p class="ind">Please know that these are simply examples. If they apply to you personally then great. If not, then use them to prompt you to discover what areas you might explore that matter to you.</p>
<p class="ind" id="page220">And don’t forget time blocking. Time block with yourself to make sure the things that matter get done and the activities that matter get mastered. In some cases, you’ll want to block time to find your answer and, other times you’ll just need to block time to implement it.</p>
<p class="ind">Now, let’s go to work and see how you might take the power of the ONE Thing with you.</p>
<h3 class="subhead">YOUR JOB</h3>
<p class="noind1">Put the ONE Thing to work taking your professional life to the next level. Here’s a few ways to get started.</p>
<ul class="calibre12">
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do today to complete my current project ahead of schedule... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do this month to produce better work... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do before my next review to get the raise I want... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">What’s the ONE Thing I can do everyday to finish my work and still get home on time... ?</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subhead">YOUR WORK TEAM</h3>
<p class="noind1">Pull the ONE Thing into your work with others. Whether you’re a manager, executive, or even a business owner, bring ONE Thing thinking into your everyday work situations to drive productivity upward. Here are some scenarios to consider.</p>
<ul class="calibre12">
	<li class="calibre9">In any meeting ask, “What’s the ONE Thing we can accomplish in this meeting and end early... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">In building your team ask, What’s the ONE Thing I can do in the next six months to find and develop incredible talent... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9"><a id="page221" class="pcalibre1 pcalibre pcalibre3 pcalibre2"></a>In planning for the next month, year, or five years ask, What’s the ONE Thing we can do right now to accomplish our goals ahead of schedule and under budget... ?</li>
	<li class="calibre9">In your department or at the highest company level ask, What’s the ONE Thing we can do in the next 90 days to create a ONE Thing culture... ?</li>
</ul>
<p class="ind">Again, these are merely examples to get you thinking about the possibilities. And, just as in your personal life, once you’ve decided what matters most, professional time blocking becomes your way of making sure it gets done. At work, this is usually about either a short-term project you must complete or an ongoing long-term activity you’re committed to doing repeatedly. No matter, an appointment with yourself is the surest path to ensuring you achieve extraordinary results.</p>
<p class="ind">Casual open discussions or short in-house workshops around key concepts in the book might really help everyone at work find their own understanding and get on the same page.</p>
<p class="ind">If implementing the ONE Thing in an area requires you to involve others, consider getting them their own copy of the book. Sharing your ahas is a great start and you may be happily surprised with the insights you get back when others have a chance to read the book on their own.</p>
<p class="ind">Keep in mind that it takes more than reading the book and a few conversations or mentions in a meeting to make The ONE Thing a new habit in your life or in the lives of those around you. You know from reading the book that it takes on average 66 days to create a new habit, so approach this accordingly. To ignite your life you must focus on ONE Thing long enough for it to catch fire.</p>
<p class="ind" id="page222">Let’s look at a few other areas where The ONE Thing might make a real difference.</p>
<div class="block">
	<h3 class="subhead_gray">YOUR NON-PROFIT</h3>
	<p class="noind1">What’s the ONE Thing we can do to fund our annual financial needs... ? Serve twice as many people... ? Double our number of volunteers... ?</p>
	<h3 class="subhead_gray">YOUR SCHOOL</h3>
	<p class="noind1">What’s the ONE Thing we can do to decrease our dropout rate to zero... ? Raise our test scores by 20 percent... ? Increase our graduation rate to 100 percent... ? Double our parent participation... ?</p>
	<h3 class="subhead_gray">YOUR PLACE OF WORSHIP</h3>
	<p class="noind1">What’s the ONE Thing we can do to improve our worship experience... ? Double our mission outreach success... ? Max out our attendance... ? Achieve our finance goals... ?</p>
	<h3 class="subhead_gray">YOUR COMMUNITY</h3>
	<p class="noind1">What’s the ONE Thing we can do to improve our sense of community... ? Help the homebound... ? Double our volunteerism... ? Double voter turnout... ?</p>
</div>
<p class="ind">After my wife Mary read this book, I asked her to do something. She turned to me and you know what she said? “Gary, that’s not my ONE Thing right now!” We laughed, high-fived, and I got to do it myself!</p>
<p class="ind">The ONE Thing forces you to think big, work things through to create a list, prioritize that list so that a geometric progression can happen, and then hammer away on the first thing—the ONE Thing that starts your domino run.</p>
<p class="ind" id="page223">So be prepared to live a new life! And remember that the secret to extraordinary results is to ask a very big and specific question that leads you to one very small and tightly focused answer.</p>
<p class="ind">If you try to do everything, you could wind up with nothing. If you try to do just ONE Thing, the right ONE Thing, you could wind up with everything you ever wanted.</p>
<p class="ind">The ONE Thing is real. If you put it to work, it will work.</p>
<p class="ind">So don’t delay. Ask yourself the question, “What’s the ONE Thing I can do right now to start using The ONE Thing in my life such that by doing it everything else will be easier or unnecessary?”</p>
<p class="ind">And make doing the answer your first ONE Thing!</p>
<p class="ind">Onward...</p>
<p class="first"><b class="calibre4">Gary Keller</b></p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../utahm7ga.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="1-cover.xhtml#cover">Cover</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="2-title_page.xhtml#title_page">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="4-TOC.xhtml#TOC">Table of Contents</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="5-chap1.xhtml#chap1">1. The ONE Thing</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="6-chap2.xhtml#chap2">2. The Domino Effect</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="7-chap3.xhtml#chap3">3. Success Leaves Clues</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="8-part1.xhtml#part1">Part 1: The Lies</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="10-chap4.xhtml#chap4">4. Everything Matters Equally</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="11-chap5.xhtml#chap5">5. Multitasking</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="12-chap6.xhtml#chap6">6. A Disciplined Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="13-chap7.xhtml#chap7">7. Willpower Is Always on Will-Call</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="14-chap8.xhtml#chap8">8. A Balanced Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="15-chap9.xhtml#chap9">9. Big Is Bad</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="16-part2.xhtml#part2">Part 2: The Truth</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="18-chap10.xhtml#chap10">10. The Focusing Question</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="19-chap11.xhtml#chap11">11. The Success Habit</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="20-chap12.xhtml#chap12">12. The Path to Great Answers</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="21-part3.xhtml#part3">Part 3: Extraordinary Results</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="23-chap13.xhtml#chap13">13. Live with Purpose</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="24-chap14.xhtml#chap14">14. Live by Priority</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="25-chap15.xhtml#chap15">15. Live for Productivity</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="26-chap16.xhtml#chap16">16. The Three Commitments</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="27-chap17.xhtml#chap17">17. The Four Thieves</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="28-chap18.xhtml#chap18">18. The Journey</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="29-onething.xhtml#onething">Putting The ONE Thing to Work</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="30-research.xhtml#research">On the Research</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="31-index.xhtml#index">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="32-ack.xhtml#ack">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="33-authors.xhtml#authors">About the Authors</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="34-resources.xhtml#resources">Resources</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="35-copyright.xhtml#copyright">Copyright</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="28-chap18.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../utahm7ga.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="30-research.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
