<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>The ONE Thing</title>
    <meta content="urn:uuid:3f97e3d1-e3c0-4aed-8d88-d99b2216be28" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../utahm7ga.html">The ONE Thing
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Gary Keller

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="31-index.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="33-authors.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="chaptitle" id="ack"><a id="page232" class="pcalibre3 calibre5 pcalibre pcalibre1 pcalibre2"></a>ACKNOWLEDGMENTS</h1>
<p class="first">When we were putting this book together, we agreed to do our best to organize it using the principles of The ONE Thing. Most books follow the Chicago Manual of Style’s traditional guidelines and have a half-title, title, copyright, endorsements, author bio, foreword, acknowledgments, dedication, and epigraph pages all before you ever get to the table of contents and the actual text. Really?</p>
<p class="ind">It all got tossed out the window. In terms of advocating for you, the reader, we felt this was the ONE “design” Thing we could do to improve your experience. As a result, the acknowledgments ended up in the back of the book. In<a id="page233" class="pcalibre1 pcalibre pcalibre3 pcalibre2"></a> reality, if you were to reorder the book in terms of what’s most important to the authors, this section may well have fallen just inside the front cover.</p>
<p class="ind">We began outlining this book in the summer of 2008 and submitted the first full draft to our publisher on June 1, 2012—a four-year journey we certainly couldn’t have navigated without help. Lots of it.</p>
<p class="ind">Family comes first. Without the love and support of my wife Mary and son John, this book wouldn’t be what it is. My writing partner, Jay, is equally thankful for the love and encouragement from Wendy and his kids, Gus and Veronica. Spouses, especially wise, literate ones like ours, get the largely thankless job of reading all the rough drafts rife with flaws and riddled with errors that eventually become a finished book.</p>
<p class="ind">We also benefited from a great support team. Vickie Lukachik and Kylah Magee loaded us up with so much research it took us close to half a year to digest it. Valerie Vogler-Stipe and Sarah Zimmerman did their ONE Thing and kept our plates and calendars free so we could stay focused on the book. The rest of our team, Allison Odom, Barbara Sagnes, Mindy Hager, Liz Krakow, Lisa Weathers, Denice Neason, and Mitch Johnson, also stayed on their ONE Thing so we could do ours.</p>
<p class="ind">My Keller Williams Realty partners and senior leaders each lent their ideas and support along the way: Mo Anderson, Mark Willis, Mary Tennant, Chris Heller, John Davis, Tony Dicello, Dianna and Shon Kokoszka, and Jim Talbot. Thanks guys! You rock! Our marketing team, led by Ellen Marks, worked extensively on the design of the book, including all the ways you likely heard about it: Annie Switt, Hiliary Kolb, Stephanie Van Hoek, Laura Price, the super-talented<a id="page234" class="pcalibre1 pcalibre pcalibre3 pcalibre2"></a> designers Michael Balistreri and Caitlin McIntosh, as well as Tamara Hurwitz, Jeff Ryder, and Owen Gibbs on our production team, and the web team of Hunter Frazier and Veronica Diaz. Cary Sylvester, Mike Malinowski, and Ben Herndon coordinated our IT work inside and outside the building with partners like Feed Magnet and NVNTD. Anthony Azar, Tom Freireich, and Danny Thompson worked with our vendor partners as well as with our partners in the field to make sure we got the book in as many hands as possible. Special thanks to Kaitlin Merchant of KW Research and Mona Covey, Julie Fantechi, and Dawn Sroka of KWU for their work pre- and post-publication.</p>
<p class="ind">We also had the benefit of working with a publisher that truly gets The ONE Thing and lives it, Ray Bard of Bard Press. He assembled an excellent team that advised, supported, and encouraged us when we were writing and later, during the editing, pushed us to the edge to make it as good as it could be. Our extended publishing team includes managing editor Sherry Sprague, editor Jeff Morris, copy/ production editor Deborah Costenbader, Randy Miyake and Gary Hespenheide of Hespenheide Design, proofreader Luke Torn, and indexer Linda Webster.</p>
<p class="ind">Publicist Barbara Henricks of Cave Henricks Communications and social media pro Rusty Shelton of Shelton Interactive provided early feedback and led the media campaign. We also had a group of veteran readers who, with some select members of our team, provided feedback on our early draft: Jennifer Driscoll-Hollis, Spencer Gale, David Hathaway, Robert M. Hooper, Ph.D., Scott Provence, Cynthia Robbins, Robert Todd, and Todd Sattersten.</p>
<p class="ind" id="page235">Thanks to the super-responsive researchers, professors, and authors who answered our questions on a variety of topics: Dr. Roy Baumeister, a Francis Eppes Eminent Scholar at Florida State University and Social Psychology Area Director; Dr. Myron P. Gutmann, Directorate for the Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences at the National Science Foundation; Dr. Eric Klinger, Professor of Psychology Emeritus at the University of Minnesota, Morris; Dr. Jonathan Levav, Associate Professor of Marketing at Stanford University; Paul McFedries, author of the unique website wordspy.com; Dr. David E. Meyer, Professor of Psychology in the Cognition and Perception Program at the University of Michigan and director of the University of Michigan’s Brain, Cognition, and Action Laboratory; Dr. Phyllis Moen, McKnight Presidential Chair in Sociology at the University of Minnesota; Erica Mosner at Historical Studies-Social Science Library at the Institute for Advanced Study; the super-helpful Rachel from Bronnie Ware’s website; Valoise Armstrong at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Library; Dr. Ed Deiner, author and Professor Emeritus in the Department of Psychology at the University of Illinois; and James Cathcart, Senior Leadership Consultant at Franklin Covey. We’re also grateful to The Keller Center in the Hankamer School of Business at Baylor University and Casey Blaine for her research on multitasking early on in our journey. And last, I’d be remiss if I didn’t thank my business coach Bayne Henyon for his insights all those years ago that changed the way I looked at things and reshaped the way I worked.</p>
<p class="ind">Thank you everyone for everything!</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../utahm7ga.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="1-cover.xhtml#cover">Cover</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="2-title_page.xhtml#title_page">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="4-TOC.xhtml#TOC">Table of Contents</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="5-chap1.xhtml#chap1">1. The ONE Thing</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="6-chap2.xhtml#chap2">2. The Domino Effect</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="7-chap3.xhtml#chap3">3. Success Leaves Clues</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="8-part1.xhtml#part1">Part 1: The Lies</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="10-chap4.xhtml#chap4">4. Everything Matters Equally</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="11-chap5.xhtml#chap5">5. Multitasking</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="12-chap6.xhtml#chap6">6. A Disciplined Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="13-chap7.xhtml#chap7">7. Willpower Is Always on Will-Call</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="14-chap8.xhtml#chap8">8. A Balanced Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="15-chap9.xhtml#chap9">9. Big Is Bad</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="16-part2.xhtml#part2">Part 2: The Truth</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="18-chap10.xhtml#chap10">10. The Focusing Question</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="19-chap11.xhtml#chap11">11. The Success Habit</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="20-chap12.xhtml#chap12">12. The Path to Great Answers</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="21-part3.xhtml#part3">Part 3: Extraordinary Results</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="23-chap13.xhtml#chap13">13. Live with Purpose</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="24-chap14.xhtml#chap14">14. Live by Priority</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="25-chap15.xhtml#chap15">15. Live for Productivity</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="26-chap16.xhtml#chap16">16. The Three Commitments</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="27-chap17.xhtml#chap17">17. The Four Thieves</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="28-chap18.xhtml#chap18">18. The Journey</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="29-onething.xhtml#onething">Putting The ONE Thing to Work</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="30-research.xhtml#research">On the Research</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="31-index.xhtml#index">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="32-ack.xhtml#ack">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="33-authors.xhtml#authors">About the Authors</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="34-resources.xhtml#resources">Resources</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="35-copyright.xhtml#copyright">Copyright</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="31-index.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../utahm7ga.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="33-authors.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
