<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>The ONE Thing</title>
    <meta content="urn:uuid:3f97e3d1-e3c0-4aed-8d88-d99b2216be28" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../utahm7ga.html">The ONE Thing
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Gary Keller

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="8-part1.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="10-chap4.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<div class="quote">
	<p class="noind1" id="page28"><big class="sanspink1">“It ain’t what you don’t know that gets you into trouble. It’s what you know for sure that just ain’t so.”</big></p>
	<p class="right1"><i class="sansgray2">—Mark Twain</i></p>
</div>
<h3 class="subhead1">THE TROUBLE WITH “TRUTHINESS”</h3>
<p class="noind1">In 2003, Merriam-Webster began analyzing searches on their online dictionary to determine the “Word of the Year.” The idea was that since online searches for words reveal whatever is on our collective minds, then the most searched-for word should capture the spirit of the times. The debut winner delivered. On the heels of the invasion of Iraq, it seems everyone wanted to know what “democracy” really meant. The next year, “blog,” a little made-up word that described a new way to communicate, topped the list. After all the political scandals of 2005, “integrity” earned top honors.</p>
<p class="ind" id="page29">Then, in 2006, Merriam-Webster added a twist. Site visitors could nominate candidates and subsequently vote on the “Word of the Year.” You could say it was an effort to instill a quantitative exercise with qualitative feedback, or you could just call it good marketing. The winner, by a five-to-one landslide, was “truthiness,” a word comedian Stephen Colbert coined as “truth that comes from the gut, not books” on the debut episode of his Comedy Central show, <i class="calibre6">The Colbert Report.</i> In an Information Age driven by round-the-clock news, ranting talk radio, and editorless blogging, truthiness captures all the incidental, accidental, and even intentional falsehoods that sound just “truthy” enough for us to accept as true.</p>
<p class="ind">The problem is we tend to act on what we believe even when what we believe isn’t anything we should. As a result, buying into <span class="grayunderline">The ONE Thing becomes difficult because we’ve unfortunately bought into too many others</span>—and more often than not those “other things” muddle our thinking, misguide our actions, and sidetrack our success.</p>
<p class="ind">Life is too short to chase unicorns. It’s too precious to rely on a rabbit’s foot. The real solutions we seek are almost always hiding in plain sight; unfortunately, they’ve usually been obscured by an unbelievable amount of bunk, an astounding flood of “common sense” that turns out to be nonsense. Ever hear your boss evoke the frog-in-boiling-water metaphor? (“Toss a frog into a pot of hot water and it will jump right back out. But if you place a frog in lukewarm water and slowly raise the temperature, it will boil to death.”) It’s a lie—a very truthy lie, but a lie nonetheless. Anyone ever tell you “fish stink from the head down”? Not true. Just a fish tale that actually turns out to be fishy. Ever hear about<a id="page30" class="pcalibre1 pcalibre pcalibre3 pcalibre2"></a> how the explorer Cortez burned his ships on arriving at the Americas to motivate his men? Not true. Another lie. “Bet on the jockey, not the horse!” has long been a rallying cry for placing your faith in a company’s leadership. However, as a betting strategy, this maxim will put you on the fast track to the pauper’s house, which makes you wonder how it ever became a maxim at all. Over time, myths and mistruths get thrown around so often they eventually feel familiar and start to sound like the truth.</p>
<p class="ind">Then we start basing important decisions on them.</p>
<p class="ind">The challenge we all face when forming our success strategies is that, just like tales of frogs, fish, explorers, and jockeys, success has its own lies too. “I just have too much that has to be done.” “I’ll get more done by doing things at the same time.” “I need to be a more disciplined person.” “I should be able to do what I want whenever I want.” “I need more balance in my life.” “Maybe I shouldn’t dream so big.” Repeat these thoughts often enough and they become the six lies about success that keep us from living The ONE Thing.</p>
<div class="block">
	<h3 class="subhead_gray">THE SIX LIES BETWEEN YOU AND SUCCESS</h3>
		<ol class="calibre8">
		<li class="calibre9">Everything Matters Equally</li>
		<li class="calibre9">Multitasking</li>
		<li class="calibre9">A Disciplined Life</li>
		<li class="calibre9">Willpower Is Always on Will-Call</li>
		<li class="calibre9">A Balanced Life</li>
		<li class="calibre9">Big Is Bad</li>
	</ol>
</div>
<p class="ind">The six lies are beliefs that get into our heads and become operational principles driving us the wrong way. Highways<a id="page31" class="pcalibre1 pcalibre pcalibre3 pcalibre2"></a> that end as bunny trails. Fool’s gold that diverts us from the mother lode. If we’re going to maximize our potential, we’re going to have to make sure we put these lies to bed.</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../utahm7ga.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="1-cover.xhtml#cover">Cover</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="2-title_page.xhtml#title_page">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="4-TOC.xhtml#TOC">Table of Contents</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="5-chap1.xhtml#chap1">1. The ONE Thing</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="6-chap2.xhtml#chap2">2. The Domino Effect</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="7-chap3.xhtml#chap3">3. Success Leaves Clues</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="8-part1.xhtml#part1">Part 1: The Lies</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="10-chap4.xhtml#chap4">4. Everything Matters Equally</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="11-chap5.xhtml#chap5">5. Multitasking</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="12-chap6.xhtml#chap6">6. A Disciplined Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="13-chap7.xhtml#chap7">7. Willpower Is Always on Will-Call</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="14-chap8.xhtml#chap8">8. A Balanced Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="15-chap9.xhtml#chap9">9. Big Is Bad</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="16-part2.xhtml#part2">Part 2: The Truth</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="18-chap10.xhtml#chap10">10. The Focusing Question</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="19-chap11.xhtml#chap11">11. The Success Habit</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="20-chap12.xhtml#chap12">12. The Path to Great Answers</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="21-part3.xhtml#part3">Part 3: Extraordinary Results</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="23-chap13.xhtml#chap13">13. Live with Purpose</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="24-chap14.xhtml#chap14">14. Live by Priority</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="25-chap15.xhtml#chap15">15. Live for Productivity</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="26-chap16.xhtml#chap16">16. The Three Commitments</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="27-chap17.xhtml#chap17">17. The Four Thieves</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="28-chap18.xhtml#chap18">18. The Journey</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="29-onething.xhtml#onething">Putting The ONE Thing to Work</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="30-research.xhtml#research">On the Research</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="31-index.xhtml#index">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="32-ack.xhtml#ack">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="33-authors.xhtml#authors">About the Authors</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="34-resources.xhtml#resources">Resources</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="35-copyright.xhtml#copyright">Copyright</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="8-part1.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../utahm7ga.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="10-chap4.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
